victim authority is the biggest issue in
the black community always try to be
addicted in some ways the discourse
about race and racism within the United
States of America has become a debate
that the whole world participates in at
a distance and all too often with a
total lack of sincerity believe me
voices like dr. Martin Luther King jr.
were heard in India they were heard in
Thailand they were heard in Cambodia and
they were heard by Aboriginal peoples in
Australia also in part because the
United States has this dominant position
just in cinema just in pop culture just
in producing mainstream movies and you
know other media like stand-up comedy
people all around the world hear jokes
about racism in America hear reflections
and analysis and historical
hand-wringing about the history of
slavery and racism in the United States
America to a much lesser extent today in
2017 I think the history of
anti-semitism in Germany has also become
part of the whole world's history the
whole world stopping to reflect on what
is the meaning of ethnicity in their own
country's history where does it come
from where is it going in the future
because they don't want to repeat the
mistakes of Europe's recent past but I
assure you if you talk to Lotion
teenagers or Cambodian teenagers they're
growing up listening to rap music
they're growing up watching movies and
stand-up comedians that talk about race
and races in the United States of
America and they're more likely to think
about world war two in the context of
say a video game or an action movie that
doesn't really deal with any of those
ethical or ethnic questions so we have a
very strange asymmetrical relationship
when it comes to issues of racism and
just I guess you'd say racial
sensitivity I'm gonna play you a clip
from a Japanese guy
if you watch this whole video he
provides many disclaimers explaining
that he doesn't consider himself racist
that he has black friends that he has
black students that he treats black
people and white people equally but he's
providing those disclaimers because he's
aware of that he's perceived as racist
by white Americans because of what he
says about black Americans now I don't
want to deal with this in a very general
way I don't want to deal with sort of
broad vague question of Asians being de
facto racist when they get involved in
unique racial politics within North
America United States and Canada that
might be an interesting topic for
another video what I want to do is
actually answer the specific issues he
raises here I want to speak to the
question he raised this year ago being
so-called obsessed with the past about a
so-called victim mentality and a sense
of identity that's rooted in this case
in the historical trauma of slavery but
in other cases what I think are really
related cases in really important cases
we have these same questions being posed
for indigenous people in North America
the Cree did G oh boy the Mohawk in
Canada we say First Nations in the
United States to say Native Americans
the same type of questions are posed in
that political context and it's really
kind of sad because these questions are
posed as if there is no answer and I'm
gonna give you what I think is a
meaningful and important and often
overlooked answer but before I play this
clip I'll just say again we're in an
asymmetrical situation where the whole
world seems to participate in examining
the race problem the problem of racism
within the United States of America and
people in the United States of America
are quite unaware of racism and how it
works within Asia within Japan within
Korea and then in relationships between
the Japanese and the Koreans within a
country like Laos in the relationship
between Laos and Thailand Thailand and
Cambodia Myanmar and all of the above
the way racism exists within India with
it's long history of the caste system or
indeed very obvious to say the racism of
Chinese people against people from India
and vice-versa the whole world learns a
lot by carefully watching the problem of
racism within the United States of
America and Americans learn nothing by
ignoring the history of racism in these
other countries around the world
black people number one why I useful
obsessed with the past for those who
don't know yet I actually have many
black friends and black students I'm
teaching Japanese but pretty much every
time I talk with a product person about
racism they always bring up the
three-body history and talk about how
horribly white people treated them at
some time in the same Greg Nobita don't
be brainwashed by white people okay be
careful because they don't like us so
they are trying to make us look bad okay
wait comes to slavery history of course
it was bad and horrible but when that
happened actually that's a long long
time ago like almost 100 years ago
isn't it just weird or persisting with
something that happened so long the time
ago I'm sure the United States is not
even the same country it was back in two
days and so many other things happened
right like World War two oil crisis
Great Depression was super exact but why
so many black people just skip these
things in the pickup's slavery history
specifically and we even get angry to
white people man blaming something that
the ancestors did a long time ago just
doesn't make any sense
white people living in the u.s. now are
not responsible for what happened 102
years ago again I know it was horrible
I'm not saying we should just forget
some history completely but why not was
just move on why you are still living in
the past that past is already gone
this is 2017 dragging some slavery
history
who benefits what the intention that can
only make white people feel shitty it's
not what you want this is why victim
Authority is the biggest issue in the
black community always try to be a
victim in responding to this or from my
perspective refuting it I want to start
at the shallow end of the swimming pool
but in this case it's really the shallow
end and not the deep end that's
important this guy's argument rests on
the notion of obsession and unhealthy
obsession with the past that people are
failing to move on and this failure to
move on entails a victim mentality that
he then goes on to criticize further
what would it mean to be obsessed with
the past let's think about the things
that white people black people Native
Americans do with their time I know a
lot of black people and a lot of white
people who play video games how many
hours in their childhood did they spend
playing video games and how do these
hours shape their identity as children
and now as grown adults dozens and
dozens of hours very common to play
video games for more than 10 hours a
week for young boys and young girls and
even for adults into adulthood how many
hours do they spend watching mainstream
movies or mainstream TV shows about save
vampires at what point do we reproach
people for being obsessed with video
games with vampires with Star Trek with
Game of Thrones with any given TV show
movie or comic book although I was
raised half Jewish the history of the
Holocaust in some sense was important to
my youth the amount of time I spent
reading about the Holocaust was much
much less than what I spent reading
about Batman and nobody ever claimed I
was obsessed with Batman of the Justice
League
that was just an important part of my
childhood and most of us today in 2017
our habits as adults
are really no less childish now if you
met a young man I don't think the fellow
meekness whoever eyes if you met a young
man who really did spend more time
studying the history of slavery then he
spent watching Star Trek or Star Wars or
whatever cartoons might interest someone
his age and again even adults watch
cartoons day if he was someone who
really chose not to play video games but
to seriously study and learn from the
history of slavery would you call that
an obsession I wouldn't I think that
would be remarkably praiseworthy
and not just for that topic but for
almost any topic in the history of the
world it's incredibly rare it's to try
to represent this as a broad obsession
in the african-american community in in
North America is just surreal what he
really means and this is part of the
reason why his argument is indeed evil
is that if African Americans take any
interest in slavery at all he's gonna
reproach them for being obsessed with
the past failing to move on and then
he's going to point the finger at them
for having a victim mentality but pretty
much every time I talk of is a product
buzzing about racism they always bring
up it's a three buddy history on the
contrary we have to be honest with
ourselves that the average African
American how many hours of cinema will
they have ever watched dealing with
slavery their whole childhood their
whole adult lives combined is it
possible they've watched 10 hours of
documentary movies about the history of
slavery maybe that's a maximum but on
average maybe they've watched four hours
or six hours they've watched a few
documentaries in their lives the average
Jewish person how many hours of
documentaries have they seen about World
War 2 and the Holocaust and then very
simply how would that number compared to
the average number of hours spent
playing video games or watching movies
about vampires or any of the other still
things that we regard as value neutral
in modern Western culture and that
nevertheless really do shape our
identity I think in a very real sense
Batman was more of a formative influence
on my identity growing up than anything
I read in the Bible and I think that's
true of a lot of other people whether or
not they can be honest with themselves
in reflecting on what those influences
were this is really hard and it's hard
to deal with and it's a really awful
argument when this guilt trip is late at
the feet of First Nations people in
Canada the Cree the agility the Mohawk
Native Americans native Canadians would
even want to say it's just horrible for
someone whether Japanese are white or
even if they're native Canadian
themselves to say that you should move
on and then if you fail to move on you
have an unhealthy obsession with the
past why not just move on why are you
all still living in the past that path
is already gone for the most part I mean
again how many native Canadians have you
ever met who spent more time reading
books about this history than any of
these other things in mainstream media
the movies that exist for these people
to reflect in their own past yeah there
were a few documentaries by the National
Film Board there are movies that are
made for a white audience that they
often have very mixed feelings about and
feel uncomfortable watching or feel
uncomfortable showing their own children
if you're actually native Canadian how
do you feel watching a movie like Dances
with Wolves
how do you feel seeing the kind of white
American and white Canadian attempts to
lionize the history of native peoples it
was very uncomfortable it's very strange
in many ways that's not their cinema
it's not their voice it's not their
perspective on their own history a very
very small number of them might be
consumed with a passion to studying out
their own history to a level that you'd
characterize as obsession but even then
I think when you meet those people you
would find that obsession admirable at
least in the same way that if you meet
someone who's really researching the
American Civil War
and almost any topic in history
somebody's passionate about studying
history why would you perceive that as
an unhealthy obsession so what this
Japanese youtuber does in this argument
is to start by claiming that any
interest in the history of slavery even
an offhand mention in the context of
them trying apparently from the little
he says african-americans trying to
explain African American identity and
African race politics to an outsider to
a Japanese immigrant even in this even
this kind of brief mention any mention
of it at all he sees as indicating an
unhealthy obsession that people either
have to move on from or else from his
perspective they're guilty of so-called
trying to be a victim people do assemble
a sense of identity out of little bits
and pieces like this you know and if we
can reflect again on childhood or early
adulthood honestly I think it's very
difficult to come to grips with the
extent to which maybe just a couple of
documentaries you saw maybe just a
couple of movies you saw maybe some
story books you read as a child maybe
real pieces of propaganda you were given
as a child government propaganda school
board propaganda that your sense of
nation and nationality and ethnicity may
have been pieced together from very few
sources that took very few minutes of
your time or very few hours in total if
you add up all the movies you've seen on
this topic and at the same time in a
much less examined way our exposure to
things like Batman and spider-man and
Superman and videogames is also giving
us a sense of our place in the world
probably the single greatest influence
on me and my life was the TV show Sesame
Street and Sesame Street did have an
explicit discourse about race and racism
and equality it was designed that way
from the start to show black people and
white people living in harmony there is
there is that kind of low-key political
content
to the TV shows I was I was watching as
a kid Japan is a country that in many
ways has a weak sense of their own
national identity and of their own
national destiny since their defeat in
World War two and there having been
reduced to basically being an American
colony with a constitution written by
the United States under perpetual of
military occupation by the United States
via the strategic airbase at Okinawa
Island however I think that as I said in
the intro of this video the Japanese
learn a great deal from watching
American politics including American
ethnic politics American racism American
race politics and doubtless that's going
to influence and change the sense the
Japanese have about themselves their own
racial identity and the racist tensions
between Japanese and Korean Japanese and
Chinese Japanese and Filipinos Japanese
and Indonesians on and on it goes and
the racist divisions that exist within
Japan also I feel confident that Japan
has made tremendous progress and will
continue to make progress partly because
they're learning from the mistakes
America has made I'm much more worried
about the extent to which countries like
the United States and Canada have become
overly confident that they represent an
unimpeachable standard of
multiculturalism an unimpeachable
standard of no non racists inclusive
perfectly integrated society is
perfectly democratic and liberal
societies and they're failing to learn
from the examples of these other
countries in Asia most definitely
including Japan which has its own
triumphs and its own tragedies
definitely its own mistakes for us to
learn from